SparkSQL

1. objective is write less code let optimizer figure out best way to execute
2. faster execution
3. read less data
4. support all kinds of formats

Snappy Additions
1. Added SQL extensions for stream
2. Sampling of DF and present sampled DF
3. Appendable ExternalStore
4. OLTP Store as columnar store
5. OLTP is available for join with OLAP queries. OLTP tables can be mutated

Streaming extensions
	foreachrdd { rdd =>
		df = makeDF(rdd)
		insertIntoStore(df)
	}
	
sql - write data-source API for PDXInstance

sampling - reservoir sampling


State
1. Shared Memory (/dev/shm, tmpfs)
2. Memory Mapped Files
3. OffHeap - https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Map
	Great article : http://www.infoq.com/articles/Open-JDK-and-HashMap-Off-Heap

What Spark needs?

Big issue with Spark is that it does not have any state. This is due to fact that
each job gets its own executor processes which run tasks in its own thread-pool.
So data cached locally - either through Spark cache() mechanism or cached locally
(using either say hashmap or some sort of in-memory cache) get lost when executors
die.

But why do we need state. Mostly to share data between jobs. If same hadoop files
are read by different jobs why not cache it in memory. But as executors die all memory
contents will be lost. There are two solutions for this

1. Save data explicitely into in-memory grid after you read it in first job
2. Read the data from in-memory grid in subsequent jobs

So you will have colocated long running processes on each of the executor machines.
Lets call this process as LRP

To take this model further, why not put both LRP process and executor in the
same process? This will require change in the spark-cluster-model.

Spark scheduling works loosly based on following algoritm.

1. Driver connects to master and request executors
2. Master starts executor VMs through worker nodes. Executor connect to drivers after which
   driver puts all required jars on each executor
3. Driver then sends tasks derived from the input-job to the executors

To modify the cluster model we basically will need following changes
1. Master process is running inside one of LRP nodes
2. Driver connects to master process and requests executor nodes. Master through LRP starts
   executor nodes either in the same process or spawns another local process
3. Executor connect to drivers after which driver puts all required jars on each executor
4. Driver then sends tasks derived from the input-job to the executors. Whenever job refers
   to the data required its read through mechanism provided by LRP
   
LRP Mechanism to read the data
1. Shared Memory (/dev/shm, tmpfs)
2. Memory Mapped Files
3. OffHeap - https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Map
4. Same process (executor is just another thread in LRP)
   


		

